okay we have some breaking news with uh
alzer's correspondent isma Al Gul we
understand has been killed along with
his cameraman in
Gaza more details of course on that as
we get it but we are going to speak to
Maan bishara who's in London obviously
monitoring all the developments Maan
extremely distressing news that Ismail
Al Gul the AL jaaz Arabic correspondent
along with his caran Ramy Al REI have uh
lost their lives in Gaza a clear
reminder of uh the serious ramifications
of what it is to be a journalist
operating in Gaza and getting
information out of
Gaza it's really horrible it's just it's
horrific uh you know I watched uh I
watched him over I watch SM over the
past several weeks
especially and U it's quite amazing to
see these young people uh Al course
respondents working so
diligently so calmly and collectively
from Gaza while um you know bombs go off
everywhere around them and he seemed to
me anyway and sounded to me and
especially looked to me like incredibly
professional journalist although at a
very young age and really getting tired
and isra killing um these young young
young
journalists uh whether working for Al
jazer or other uh you know we've been
saying about how this war has turned up
to be a war on children and certainly
certainly a
war on on journalist and that's not a
cliche that's not even a sound bite
that's not even a line it's just it's
horrible that our
colleagues uh continue to be killed and
assassinated the way they have been and
their family members and so on so forth
yes they are part and parcel of the
population in Gaza and they suffer like
the population suffer because Al jazer
you know has not exactly been
parachuting journalists they are part
and possible the fabric of the of the
Palestinian society and they understand
uh you know what is going on and they
are able to to report so objectively and
yet they are targeted the way they are
targeted they continue to die and the
service of doing their work but also the
service of sticking around with their
people as they tell the of the world
what is going on in
Gaza so many of our colleagues have been
killed us far this is just too much and
at the same time we are banned really by
a bunch of Fanatics and fascists that
continue to carry their genocidal war in
Gaza it's just beyond belief that the
Rogue
government that is on trial for genocide
that is being pursued by the prosecutor
of the international
criminal court for war crimes that is
found in violation of more more
occupation of torture of tormenting the
Palestinian people of launching a war on
children and on
hospitals and yet continues also to
Target journalists the way it does
trying to kill the
messengers
yeah Maran you raised an important point
there of course because uh amongst all
of the allegations that have been
directed at Israel and its conduct in
its war on Gaza of course the the
killing of journalists constitutes a war
crime doesn't it this adds to a growing
list of allegations leveled against the
Israeli
leadership it looks by the sounds of it
as if we have
uh oh we do have marwen marwen I wonder
if you did you hear that question yes go
ahead yes absolutely you know we
generally refer uh for example even we
at our
when we refer to Hamas for example we
refer and it's seen or it's considered
by a number of countries usually the
Western countries as a terrorist
organization I think it's probably time
you start repeating to Israel every time
we mention Israel that it's considered
by most countries in the world to be
carrying genocide by most countries in
the world to be in violation of
international law Israel is considered
by most countries in the world to be an
occupying power in violation of
international law Israel ised by most
countries of the world to be a rogue
State not a state of law but an outlow
state that continues to Target
journalists kill journalists kill
children killed doctors and nurses and
academics and killed some 40,000
civilians so perhaps just as we say
Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by a number of countries we
should also start mentioning that Israel
is considered and is certainly
indicted by the international court of
justice certainly pursued by the
prosecutor of the international criminal
court and it certainly has been called
out by the highest court of the land as
in
violation of international law again and
again and again and the latest episode
is the killing of Jord Israel has become
by each and every measure the leading
country in the world in terms of the
killing of journalists and killing of
children Maran we're going to go now to
Gaza and we're going to speak to hin
kudri somebody who knows all too well
about the stresses and strains of
working uh in a war zone of course and
hind I understand of course you would
have known is Al Gul very well tell us
about him tell tell us about his
Devotion to the
job well is was covering the war since
day one and he has been covering
everything in the north parts of the
Gaza Strip especially after the Gaza
Strip has been split into two the North
and the South he was separated from his
family he used to always post about his
daughter and how he has been separated
from her and he chose to stay in the
north to report for Al jazer and he was
counting the days where he's going to
reunite with his family he was killed
with his cameraman Ramy rifi and they
were killed they were directly targeted
in a a a white car where where they were
killed they were wearing their press
jackets they were covering the
assassination of they were on their way
back from his house in Al refugee camp
and that's how the Israeli forces is
targeting targeted them we're talking
about four journalists from Al jazer now
Shirin uh Hamza and also Sam four
journalists from Al jazer have been
killed so far but not only that
according to the
Palestinian Ministry they just announced
that
165 Palestinian journalists have been
killed since October 7 and those
journalists were all working on the
ground when they were targeted there's
viral photos right now on how uh and
Ramy were targeted it shows that they
were wearing their press jacket every
single day Al jaaz Arabic used to uh
broadcast is's reports talking about
different types of of of of of reports
who were talking about air strikes the
sewage the pment everything and I had
this call uh with is a couple of days
ago and we were talking
about helping Palestinians sick in the
Northern parts and trying to find a way
to evacuate to the southern parts of the
Gaza Strip SM was not only a journalist
but he was trying his best to help
everyone in the north to help to find
food for everyone in the north and he
was just a very kind person and despite
the fact that we did not see each other
for 10 months after being separated from
the southern parts and the Northern
parts of the Gaza STP were still in
contact talking to each other about
everything and helping each other to Air
and to report about the Gaza Strip and
this ongoing genocide and hinded is
precisely because of the information
that has gone out to the world from the
likes of isma his cameraman Ramy and
indeed yourself that the world has a
clearer understanding of some of the
atrocities that are H happening there in
Gaza on a daily basis I can hear it in
your voice HED this this is a incredibly
emotional moment for you and the team
and obviously for the whole Al jazer uh
family can you give us a sense of the
kind of precautions the safety concerns
the measures that you have to go through
on a daily basis and isma would have had
to have go through to do his
job we do everything we wear our breast
jackets we wear our helmets we try to
not go to anywhere which where it's not
safe we try to go to anywhere where to
keep our security but we have been
targeted in normal places where normal
citizens are we're trying to do
everything but at the same time we want
to report we want to tell the world
what's going on it's heartbreaking to
report this today and it's heartbreaking
to report Shin's killing hamza's killing
and Sam's killing and this is not the
first time we're doing this but every
time it feels as if it's the first time
it's a great loss for us here
journalists in Gaza especially Al ja's
team losing uh such a
colleague um hint listen we really
really appreciate your reporting for
sharing your uh memories of isma and um
Ramy thank you very much for
now okay well Ham's here in the studio I
mean ham what what what do we say to
that I mean extraordinary really the the
level of devotion our colleagues in Gaza
go through on a daily basis just to get
the information out these people are
living their job these people are are
have family members there as we heard
there from hind isma has a young
daughter I just wonder what the world
would be making of the conflict were it
not for the work of these people this is
difficult as a journalist this is a
difficult conflict to
cover the Palestinian journalists in
Gaza are the only voice from there
Israel has not allowed Foreign Press
inside unless you are with them on some
sort of military imbed but even then
they censor what you can see they show
you what they want to show you saying we
have achieved this in this area the
Israeli Army has repeatedly targeted and
attacked journalists in Gaza who are
doing nothing but trying to get the
story out there to the entire world
because they are our Lifeline there we
would not know what is going on unless
it was for these journalists these Brave
Palestinian journalists in the Gaza
Strip and whenever the Israeli military
is asked about this whenever they are
pressed on the issue of killing
journalists and media workers more than
100 have been killed since the start of
this war this is the deadliest Conflict
for journalists on record and whenever
they're asked about it they say that
they do not Target journalists they do
what they can to protect civilians which
is simply not true the reality on the
ground shows a much different story and
then often times when these journalists
are targeted the Israeli Army comes out
with some sort of statement saying that
they have evidence that these
journalists were involved in some sort
of fighting groups which is also not
true which has been denied time and time
again but the reality on the ground
shows how difficult it is to cover this
story during war during a blockade
during a Siege where the information
it's so important for it to get out
there and the Israeli Army always denies
the wrong doing here and who controls
the narrative is such a an important
aspect of this conflict because it's not
only a conflict on the ground it's an
information War before we carry on our
conversation I understand we can
probably see some images of the car uh
in which isma Al Gul was killed I wonder
if we can see those pictures of the car
of isma alol there it is you were
talking about sort of Civilian
infrastructure being targeted of
Civilian ambulances ordinary vehicles uh
being targeted um obviously we wait to
see whether Israel will issue issue a
response but given their track record
previously it's always been one of
abject denial of saying look you know
these people may have had links to H
mass fighters of obfuscating multiple
times well the Israeli Army Israeli
politicians alike are always quick to
issue denials that they did any
wrongdoing in Gaza there hasn't been any
admission of unlawful killing of the
Palestinian the only time there was this
sort of admission from the Israeli
military was when they killed their own
captives who were calling for help but
time and time again we've seen the
targeting of journalists we have seen
innocent Palestinians civilians who've
been killed you're talking about a war
that's considered a genocide and and
there have been 40,000 people who've
been killed and Israel still denies any
wrongdoing saying that they are acting
in self-defense saying that Hamas is
quote using these civilians as human
Shields but we've seen it so many times
where there are vehicles of journalists
that are targeted that are clearly
marked as press and I want to know is
alul was arrested at alifa hospital
several months ago tortured by the
Israeli Army for doing nothing but
reporting on the job and when he was
finally released due to all the pressure
that came about on the Israeli army they
still denied any wrongdoing saying that
they were arresting quote unquote Terror
suspects anyone who knew anything about
Hamas in the area but this includes
journalists the targeting of journalists
is something that we know is all too
familiar to the Israeli military look at
our own colleagues at Al jazer it didn't
just start with this war on Gaza look at
Shin Abu who was killed several years
ago and there's still been no justice
for her death there's been no justice
for any journalist who's been killed by
the Israeli military yeah mounting
mounting evidence of journalists being
deliberately targeted and as you say
there is Al goul was held for 12 hours
back in March uh severely beaten by
Israeli forces now
killed make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer